GEOSAT: Combining VLBI, SLR, GPS, and DORIS at the observation level
====================================================================

Per Helge Andersen, Michael DÃ¤hnn, Ingrid Fausk, Geir Arne Hjelle,
Ann-Silje Kirkvik, and Eirik Mysen

Poster presentation in session "G2.2 The ITRF: Elaboration, Usage and
Applications" at the EGU General Assembly, Vienna, Austria, 12 - 17
April 2015.

Abstract:

GEOSAT is a multi-technique geodetic software that has been under
development for about 30 years [P. H. Andersen, "Multilevel arc
combination with stochastic parameters". Journal of Geodesy 01/2000;
74(7): 531 - 551]. The last couple of years the development efforts
have been headed by a team at the Norwegian Mapping Authority.

The GEOSAT software can be used in the analysis of space geodetic data
by combining data from VLBI, SLR, GPS and DORIS at the observation
level epoch by epoch. As a result technique dependent systematic
errors will be visible as anomalous a posteriori residuals, and can be
compensated for by introducing technique dependent empirical
models. GEOSAT is based on factorized Kalman filters which allow the
estimation of stochastic parameters common for several techniques.

GEOSAT contributed to the IVS solution used in the upcoming ITRF. In
addition to VLBI analysis the software can process SLR and GPS data,
while DORIS based analysis is under development. Experiments in
combining data from different techniques according to the GEOSAT
philosophy are currently being done. This presentation will be a
description of how GEOSAT combines data from the different techniques,
while at the same time reporting the current state of the project and
our plans going forward.
