---
title: REFAG 2018 -- Proposal
author:
    - Ann-Silje Kirkvik
    - Geir Arne Hjelle
    - Michael Dähnn
    - Ingrid Fausk
date: February 16, 2017
---

# Where -- A New Software for Geodetic Analysis

## Abstract

The Norwegian Mapping Authority (Kartverket) is an associated analysis center
within the IVS.  We are currently developing __Where__, a new software for
geodetic analysis. __Where__ is built on our experiences with the Geosat
software, and will be able to analyse geodetic data from the VLBI, SLR, and
GNSS techniques. At the moment we are preparing to contribute VLBI analyses to
IVS. We plan to make the __Where__-software available to the community.

This presentation will show some of the current capabilities of __Where__,
including benchmarks against other software packages. __Where__ supports
parameter estimation using Kalman filters, and a comparison to the classical
methods will be shown.


## Session

__Session B2.1: Reference Frames for Applications in Geosciences”__

Reference Frames for Applications in Geosciences” (REFAG2018) continues the
quadrennial series of symposia of IAG Commission 1 “Reference Frames”, which is
identical to COSPAR Sub-Commission B2 “International Coordination of Space
Techniques for Geodesy.” Reference systems and frames are of primary importance
for research in the geosciences, satellite orbit determination, precision
navigation, as well as for practical applications in geo-information. For the
geosciences, precisely defined reference frames are needed for an improved
understanding of the Earth's rotation and its gravity field, geocenter motion,
glacial isostatic adjustment, surface loading deformation and global
redistribution of water, sea level change with time, tectonic plate motion and
plate boundary deformation, the earthquake cycle, and other crustal
displacements.  We solicit presentations dealing with theoretical aspects and
the practical realization of reference frames, as well as their applications in
the geosciences. Further emphases of the session are on global terrestrial and
regional reference frames, celestial reference frames, and the co-location of
space geodetic techniques on ground and in space.  Additionally, we encourage
scientific reports from the many dedicated participants of IAG Commission 1,
its sub-commissions, and associated working groups.
