---
title: IVS 2018 -- Proposal
author:
    - Ann-Silje Kirkvik
    - Geir Arne Hjelle
    - Åsmund Skjæveland
    - Ingrid Fausk
    - Michael Dähnn

date: February 25, 2017
---

# NMA analysis center - progress report

## Abstract

The Norwegian Mapping Authority (Kartverket) has been an associated analysis center within the IVS since 2010. Our original intentions were to become a fully operational analysis center using the legacy software GEOSAT. However, this proved to be difficult and impractical. Instead, we have started development of a new software called __Where__, and we are ready to start submitting solutions to the IVS Combination Center for testing. With the new software we are better equipped to deal with software changes such as bug fixes and new developments to handle future needs.

Previously, a comparison with other VLBI analysis software packages has showed that the implemented model in __Where__ is consistent with current convensions. By starting to submit solution the IVS combination center the estimated parameters can also be evaluated and compared to the other analysis centers. The progress on this work will be presented. When the quality of the solutions are satisfacory, we can start testing the operational analysis and the timeliness of the deliveries.

## Session -- S4 VLBI core products and their improvements

Conveners: John Gipson and Oleg Titov

The analysis of VLBI observations produces time series, long-term average
positions and rates, and values of physical parameters. We seek contributions in
topics such as the use of VLBI results in modeling geophysical fluids from the
atmosphere to the core, improvement of the precession-nutation model,
investigation of the Earth rotation variations at different time scales (from
minutes to decades), inner and outer core nutations, refinement of the
terrestrial and celestial reference frames, detection and interpretation of the
motions of specific sites and radio sources, atmospheric studies (both the
troposphere and the ionosphere), relativity tests, and other scientific uses of
geodetic and astrometric VLBI data and their impact on astrophysics and
cosmology. As 2018 will see the release of a new realization of the celestial
reference frame (ICRF3), we welcome presentations on individual solutions
provided by the IVS analysis centers to the ICRF3 effort as well as their
combinations. Other important topics are the comparison, validation, and
combination of VLBI with other space-geodetic techniques, and the integration of
the techniques within the framework of IAG’s Global Geodetic Observing System
(GGOS). Special attention is expected to be given to the assessment of the
actual accuracy and systematic errors of the VLBI-derived results, and, in
particular, to the errors caused by deficiencies of the models used in data
processing.
